The Basic Layers of the Internet

**THE PROTOCOL STACK**

                                           Protocol Stack

                                        --------------------
                                        |    Application   |
                                        |        Layer     |
                                        --------------------
                                        |        TCP       |                                
                                        |                  |
                                        --------------------
                                        |         IP       |    ----->
                                        |                  |
                                     --------------------------
                                    

*TRAVELING THROUGH THE PROTOCOL STACK*

All computers are connected. But, how does one computer know where another one is?

Let's say I request some kind of information from google.com. How does that information 
get to me? Well, it has to go through the protocol stack!

Application Layer: Simply applications that allow you to use the internet. One such service is the
world wide web, which uses HTTP. (you remember when you used to have to type in http://www.webpage.com -
you see it right in the address; connect to the world wide web via hypertext transfer protocol)

TCP: To make sure the information gets to me uncorrupted, the internet uses a protocol 
frame known as TCP. Whenever information travels across the internet, it travels in packets 
of data that're broken up and later reassembled. Delivery is never error-proof, so TCP ensures 
that this data gets to me!

IP Address: Every device (server, computer, phone, etc) connected to the network 
has a label that identifies it; this is its IP address. This is essentially a mailing 
address that lets data know where to go. An IP address is in the form "nnn.nnn.nnn.nnn" 
but can be renamed with something like google.com, facebook.com, etc (using Domain Name Service; DNS).
    - DNS is simply a table that keeps track of names, like facebook.com, and its IP address

So, if I'm trying to send someone a piece of data, say an image for example, that image will: 

    1) First be sent through an application layer such as file transfer, email, etc. The application
       layer basically just contains ways to connect to the internet (HTTP).
       
    2) If the data being sent is big (which it usually is) it'll get broken up into different packets. 
       These packets will be assigned port numbers & IP addresses. IP addresses are, like we said, simply
       the addresses of other devices on the network, while ports (TCP/IP)

    3) At the Hardware level, packets are converted to electronic signals or whatever means they are going 
       to pass between computers
       
    4) Packets are then "routed" (by routers!) where to go until they finally reach their destination, where 
       they travel inversely up to the receiver's application layer.
       
The infrastructure of the internet is such that your computer is connected to an ISP (local) which in turn is 
connected to some regional ISP. These are then connected to major Network Service Providers (NSPs) that provide
the backbone of the internet. NSPs are themselves connected via Network Access Points (NAPs), establishing a hierarchy.

Much of the magic of the internet is contained in the router. When I send a packet of data over the internet, 
does it know where to go? Definitely not. It has an IP address but there is no way it could get there by itself.
The router, after examining a packet's IP address, figures out where to send it. If a particular router doesn't 
know where it should go, it'll send it along a default route where another router will (hopefully!) know where it
should go. Routers will send data up the internet hierarchy checking routing tables until one, eventually, knows
where to send the data.

*LOOKING UP A PAGE (AKA USING HTTP)*

HTTP is a convention - it's how computers and servers talk with one another (kind of like a handshake!). When my
computer (client) requests a webpage from a server, I send a requent and get back a response. The exact structure
of this conversation is specified in the application layer (the world wide web) by HTTP. 
