JS is, seemingly, a multi-paradigm language.

    C is procedural:        you basically tell a computer, step by step, what to do. It is also technically imperative since
                            it makes references to the state of the execution environment
                     
    Ocamly is functional:   although you can do things that have to deal with OO programming and you can have variables,
                            so these imperative elements, it tries to accomplish everything solely through functions.
                            For example, instead of saving the state of a varibale, you simply ALWAYS pass that variable 
                            as a parameter to subsequent functions.
                                - provides things like type matching, etc
                            
    Java, C++, are OO:      They make use of objects, which contain data along with all applicable methods pertinent for 
                            that "object"


    We can't say JS is one thing, rather it is seemingly multi-paradigm; it has characteristics of OO programming, procedural
    programming, and functional programming.
        - it's dynamically typed
        - it's interpreted (i.e. not compiled)
        - and it's CLIENT side instead of SERVER side like PHP
            - being client side means it's going to be faster, since it doesn't have to communicate with some external device (server).
              So, for example, you don't have to use the function apologize() when a user submits something wrong. Rather, you can 
              dynamically react right on the user's client.
             

    How is JQuery and Ajax (Asynchronous Javascript and XML) different from just plain Javascript? Well, where javascript is never really
    refreshing your page by never making additional GET or POST requests to the server, AJAX will also never refresh your webpage but 
    it'll be making new HTTP requests to the SERVER, therefore, it is able to continuously ask for more data!
        - just like on some things like google maps!
